These are our official instructions for setting up the hesperus2 toolchain in Hammer.

This guide will help you use Hammer to build maps for our game engine(s) and NOT GoldSrc.

The reason why the resulting maps could not run in GoldSrc is because the said format is different.

Anyway, here is the tutorial:


First, download the Half-Life SDK via steam or github (github.com/ValveSoftware/halflife).

Hammer.exe is also in the bin folder of Half-Life.

Keep in mind that this will ONLY work well for Hammer 3.x (GoldSrc edition), as the build tools are similar.

Open Hammer.

Click Tools | Options.

 Set the game directory to the game engine's folder (not half-life).

Set the RMF directory to the folder where you want the compiled maps to go.

Now click the Build Programs tab.

Set your game executable to the game engine executable (again, not half-life's executable).

Set the CSG executable to hcsg.

Set the BSP executable to hbsp.

Set the VIS  executable to hvis.

There is no equivalent RAD program, so leave that blank for now.

Create your map, and click on File | Run Map.

In the dialogue that comes up, disable the use of RAD.

And that should be it!

In theory, this could be used to port half-life maps to the hesperus2 engine.

Keep in mind that this tutorial has NOT been tested.

Hammer will probably throw a bunh of errors and warnings about how it's "not the right game".

We will work on a proper Hammer config folder to trick Hammer into thinking that hesperus2 IS half-life.

To use your textures, you must convert them to hammer-compatible texture formats. Doing that is beyond the scope of this tutorial (but will be added soon).

Also, getting this to work is NOT easy. you will probably have to change the code of the hesperus2 tools to compile Hammer files/FGDs/etc; which is a lot of work.

more info is available here: http://www.flipcode.com/archives/Level_Editing.shtml (kind of outdated, but the interface of WorldCraft was the same as Hammer; and the Forge no longer exists, just get Hammer from steam or the bin folder).
